(whooshing)
Hey folks, Wes here.
Hopefully you are stoked to get started
on the Advanced React course.
I am gonna use this video as a chance
to get all of your tooling
and starter files and everything on your computer
so that this tutorial will run smoothly for you.
Now, I know some of you may already have this set up.
Maybe you've done one of my tutorials before.
So I'm gonna rattle off really quickly,
I'm gonna rattle off what you need.
And then I'm gonna go into why and how and what not.
And you just listen to me rattle it off
and say, "I got it, Wes,"
then you can skip it.
From there you can move on to the next video.
So real quick, you need the latest Node.js.
Probably whatever's on the LTS,
14 point whatever at the time.
It might be version 20 by the time you're listening to this.
The browser, I'm using Firefox here.
You can use Chrome.
I believe you can also use Safari.
The Dev Tools that are for React and Apollo I believe
are available on all of 'em.
You need MongoDB Compass, which is a little app
that allows you to visualize your database.
I am gonna be using VS Code.
I'll talk about why and how in just a bit.
So some sort of editor.
You need some sort of terminal.
And that is it for the tooling.
Then you also need to grab the starter files.
So if you go to your course dashboard,
you'll see a link that says Starter Files.
You'll click over to the GitHub
and there will be a sick-fits folder in there.
In that we have a backend and frontend folder.
Those will give you your starter files.
I'll talk more about them as we get into it
but again, it's very similar to every single course
that we've had.
So that's the quick and dirty of it all.
Let's go into it a little bit more.
The first one being Node.js.
You need a modern version of Node.js.
So in my case, if you don't even know
if you have Node.js installed or what version,
you can just go and open up a terminal application.
I'll talk about that in a second and type node -v.
And that'll tell you which version
of Node you are currently on.
As long as it is somewhere above what this is.
It might be version 25 by the time you're watching this.
It comes out I think monthly or something like that.
They bump the version number.
So don't be stressed if it's version 130.
You go, "Oh my gosh, that's a lot."
So that's how you can tell you have that
and then you can type npm -v
and that'll tell you which version of npm you are on.
If you are a Yarn head,
you can use Yarn for this tutorial.
It should just work properly.
I will be using npm for this.
What else have we got here?
You need two browser extensions.
You need the React Dev Tools
and you need the Apollo Dev Tools.
So React Dev Tools,
just find it for your browser, install it.
Apollo Dev Tools, they are currently working,
as I record this, they're working on a huge overhaul
to the Dev Tools.
So it might look a little bit different
or a lot of it different than what you see here.
But you just need the Apollo Dev Tools
and the functionality will be the same.
Next, we need MongoDB Compass.
So MongoDB Compass is a GUI desktop app
that will allow us to visualize the data in our database.
So you'll see here I'm connected to my database
that we're gonna be creating.
If you open up your, let's see items
and take a look here,
we've got, look, these are all of the items that we have
and all the data.
So this can be helpful
if you wanna like manually change something straight
in the database before you have a GUI.
I really love this tool.
I use it for all of my MongoDB applications.
So ahead and go to the, just google MongoDB Compass,
click on try it now
and then follow the steps in order to download it
for whatever operating system you're on.
Editor, I'm using VS Code for this one
and usually I say it doesn't matter what one you use
but the integrations between linting
and type hinting and all that stuff is so good in VS Code,
so obviously, you can use whatever you want
but a lot of the nifty tricks that I do
will be VS Code specific.
So you can go ahead and grab that.
The theme I'm using is called Cobalt two.
Also, when you open up these projects,
so when you go ahead and grab the starter files,
you'll see that we have backend and frontend.
The way that we're gonna be doing this course
is we're gonna open each, the backend and the frontend
in different VS Code windows
and that allows us to have a different mental separation
between the two code bases.
And I have purposefully color coded them.
So if I were to open up the backend,
you'll see that it is pink
and the frontend is going to be yellow.
And that will just visually show you
when I'm editing a file,
even which part of the application am I working in?
When you open it up,
it will suggest to you a list of extensions
that you might want to install.
I would recommend installing those.
You'll see a list of them in here.
You should see a little thing
on the bottom right-hand corner
if you don't already have all of these installed.
And these are just little settings
and things that I use to make my VS Code work well for React
and Node development.
Last thing, you need a terminal.
So a terminal is available already on your computer.
But I'm using one here called Hyper.
There's another really good one for the Mac called iTerm2.
There also is a built-in one.
All of this fancy mancy stuff right here is,
this is called Zeta Stage.
Absolutely not required
for the tutorial but if you do want it
to match how I have it here,
you can go to my wesbos.com/uses
and that will list off all of the configs
and what not that I am using in this tutorial.
So if you wanna get it looking exactly the same.
Not get too hung up on that though
'cause we're here to learn React
and not fiddle around with our tools all day long.
If you're on Windows,
I highly recommend you check out WSL,
Windows Subsystem for Linux.
And what that will do basically
is it gives you a terminal
that runs in Windows
but without all the tiers
and all of the commands,
everything that we do in Mac and Linux land
will just work properly on Windows land.
It's not 100% required.
You can do this tutorial with the built-in terminal
in Windows but it's just frustrating to work with
just because a lot of things don't work the same way
and you hit a bunch of bumps and bruises.
So since this is an advanced tutorial,
I'm not gonna go over how to install that or what not.
There's lots of tutorials out there, how to get it.
But that would definitely be a recommendation from me.
Last thing that we need to do here
is to run npm install on both of our folders.
So if we take a look here,
we have our backend and frontend folders.
What I like to do is keep open two tabs
and move into my Advanced-React into sick-fits.
So you can either clone the repo or download it.
And in here, you will have both of your folders.
I'm gonna go into the backend on one of them
and into the frontend on another.
And then you just run npm install
on each of these folders
and that will go into the paakage.json file
and it's going to take all of the dependencies
that are needed, both for building the application,
as well as developing it.
And go ahead off and grab them.
If you, and you will, if you see errors
about security warnings or everything warning,
it won't work or something is out of date,
unfortunately, that's just par for the course
with React and with JavaScript in general.
Don't sweat it, stick to the versions that are in here
because that is what the tutorial has been recorded with.
You can try upgrade them if you want
but you're more than likely going to run into issues
and what not.
So for the sake of learning,
stick with what you've got here in the dependencies
and I will keep this list of dependencies up to date
with everything that is needed.
When you run your npm install,
you will see 5,000 things stream across.
Like right here, I'm using React 17 for this
and a lot of my dependencies
haven't been updated for React 17.
Even though they worked,
they're gonna just puke a whole bunch
of stuff kind of thing.
Unfortunately, that's totally normal.
What have we got here?
140 vulnerabilities.
I updated this thing like three hours ago
or something like that
and this may seem really scary and it is
and you should definitely look into it but don't freak out.
Almost always this is actually not a big deal.
So don't stop the tutorial if you see something like that.
I literally updated this thing like a couple hours ago
and it's probably one little small vulnerability
that is used in 140 different of the packages
and they all will have to be updated.
So I know that sounds weird for me to say
but trust me on that, it's probably fine.
I think that's it for all of my setup.
Let's get into the next video.